68835: Document new Time Machine option for SMB shares. (#678)
freenas/freenas-docs: userguide/sharing.rst

creating any SMB shares is recommended to gain a better understanding of
the configuration scenario that meets the specific network requirements.

`SMB Tips and Tricks <https://forums.freenas.org/index.php?resources/smb-tips-and-tricks.15/>`__
shows helpful hints for configuring and managing SMB networking.
The
`FreeNAS and Samba (CIFS) permissions <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RxggaE935PM>`__
and
`Advanced Samba (CIFS) permissions on FreeNAS <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QhwOyLtArw0>`__
videos clarify setting up permissions on SMB shares. Another helpful
reference is
`Methods For Fine-Tuning Samba Permissions <https://forums.freenas.org/index.php?threads/methods-for-fine-tuning-samba-permissions.50739/>`__.

.. warning:: SMB1 is disabled by default for security. If legacy

>    clients are unable to connect to the share, go to

Reviewer: Replace all of this with "If necessary, SMB1 can be enabled in Services --> SMB Settings."
Remove the rest.

   |                         |              |             |                                                                                                                                                   |
   +-------------------------+--------------+-------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   | Use as home share       | checkbox     |             | Set to allow this share to hold user home directories. Only one share can be the home share. Note that lower case names for user home directories |
   |                         |              |             | are strongly recommended, as Samba maps usernames to all lower case. For example, the username John will be mapped to a home directory named      |
   |                         |              |             | :file:`john`. If the :guilabel:`Path` to the home share includes an upper case username, delete the existing user and recreate it in              |

>    |                         |              |             | :menuselection:`Accounts --> Users` with an all lower case :guilabel:`Username`. Return to :menuselection:`Sharing --> SMB` to create the home    |

Reviewer 2: Perhaps put an internal :ref: to the Accounts --> Users section of the guide? Just a thought.

--> View File Extents` and click the :guilabel:`Edit` button for the
file extent. Set the size to *0* as this causes the iSCSI target to
use the new size of the file.

.. index:: Time Machine
.. _Creating Authenticated and Time Machine Shares:

Creating Authenticated and Time Machine Shares
----------------------------------------------

macOS includes the Time Machine feature which can be used to perform
automatic back ups. %brand% supports Time Machine backups for both

> :ref:`AFP <Apple (AFP) Shares>` and :ref:`SMB <Windows (SMB) Shares>`

Reviewer: Mention SMB first each time.

> shares. This section has instructions to create Time Machine AFP and SMB

Reviewer: Mention SMB first.

shares, using the
:menuselection:`Wizard`

> to create an AFP Time Machine share, configuring a Time Machine share.

Reviewer: This sentence gets weird at the end.

The process for creating an authenticated share for a user is the same
as creating a Time Machine share for that user.

Manual Creation of Authenticated or Time Machine Shares
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> Both Time Machine and authenticated shares should be created on an

Reviewer: Make this imperative.
"Create Time Machine or authenticated shares on a new dataset."

:ref:`new dataset <Create Dataset>`.

> After the dataset is created, go to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Change permissions on the new dataset by going to
```

> :menuselection:`Storage --> Volumes`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`Storage --> Volumes`.
```

> highlight the dataset, and click :guilabel:`Change Permissions`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Select the dataset and click :guilabel:`Change Permissions`.
```

Enter these settings:

#. **Permission Type:** Select :guilabel:`Mac`.

#. **Owner (user):** Use the drop-down to select the desired user
   account. If the user does not yet exist on the %brand% system, create
   one with
   :menuselection:`Account --> Users`.
   See :ref:`users <Users>` for more information.

#. **Owner (group):** Select the desired group name. If the group does
   not yet exist on the %brand% system, create one with
   :menuselection:`Account --> Groups`.
   See :ref:`groups <Groups>` for more information.

#. Click :guilabel:`Change`.

> To create an authenticated or Time Machine share:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the authenticated or Time Machine share:
```

   on the %brand% system, click the drop-down :guilabel:`User` menu to
   select their user account.  If the user does not yet exist on the
   %brand% system, type their name into the :guilabel:`User` field and
   enable the :guilabel:`Create User` option. If the user will be a
   member of a group that already exists on the %brand% system, click
   the drop-down :guilabel:`Group` menu to select the group name. To
   create a new group to be used by Time Machine users, enter the name
   in the :guilabel:`Group` field and set the
   :guilabel:`Create Group` option. Otherwise, enter the same name
   as the user. In the example shown in
   :numref:`Figure %s <create_tm_auth_user_fig>`,
   both a new *user1* user and a new *tm_backups* group will be
   created. Since a new user is being created, this screen prompts for
   the user password to be used when accessing the share. It also
   provides an opportunity to change the default permissions on the
   share. When finished, click :guilabel:`Return` to return to the
   screen shown in
   :numref:`Figure %s <create_time_machine_share_fig>`.

#. Click the :guilabel:`Add` button.

>    **Remember to do this or the share will not be created**.

Reviewer: I don't think this is necessary.
```suggestion
```

>    Clicking the :guilabel:`Add` button adds an entry to the

Reviewer: This sentence also seems unnecessary.

   :guilabel:`Name` frame with the name that was entered in
   :guilabel:`Share name`.

> To configure multiple authenticated or Time Machine shares, repeat for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating multiple authenticated or Time Machine shares, repeat this process for
```

> each user, giving each user their own :guilabel:`Share name` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
each user. Give each user their own :guilabel:`Share name` and
```

:guilabel:`Ownership`. When finished, click the :guilabel:`Next`
button twice, then the :guilabel:`Confirm` button to create the

> shares. The Wizard automatically creates a dataset for each share with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
shares. The Wizard creates a dataset for each share with
```

the correct ownership and starts the AFP service so the shares are
immediately available. The new shares will appear in
:menuselection:`Sharing --> Apple (AFP)`.

.. _create_time_machine_share_fig:

.. figure:: images/afp7a.png

   Creating a Time Machine Share

.. _create_tm_auth_user_fig:

.. figure:: images/afp8.png

   Creating an Authenticated User

.. _Configuring Time Machine Backups:

Configuring Time Machine Backups
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Configuring a quota for each Time Machine share helps prevent backups
from using all available space on the %brand% system. Time Machine waits
two minutes before creating a full backup. Incremental backups are
created each hour for the next 24 hours. After that, one backup is

> created each day, each week, and each month. Each of these hourly,

Reviewer: Please verify the explanation of backups with Andrew or Bonnie.

Author: Updated text with feedback from Andrew.

daily, weekly, and monthly backups are constantly updated according to
the established time interval. The hourly backup is updated each hour,
the daily backup is updated each day, and so on.
**The oldest backups are deleted when a Time Machine share fills up, so
make sure that the quota size is large enough to hold the desired number
of backups.** Note that a default installation of macOS is over 20 GiB.

Configure a global quota using the instructions in
`Set up Time Machine for multiple machines with OSX Server-Style Quotas
<https://forums.freenas.org/index.php?threads/how-to-set-up-time-machine-for-multiple-machines-with-osx-server-style-quotas.47173/>`__.

To configure a quota, go to
:menuselection:`Storage --> Volumes`

> and highlight the share dataset. In the example shown in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and select the share dataset. In the example shown in
```

:numref:`Figure %s <set_quota_fig>`,
the Time Machine share name is *backup_user1*. Click the
:guilabel:`Edit Options` button for the share, then
:guilabel:`Advanced Mode`. Enter a value in the
:guilabel:`Quota for this dataset` field, then click
:guilabel:`Edit Dataset` to save the change. In this example, the
Time Machine share is restricted to 200 GiB.

.. _set_quota_fig:

.. figure:: images/afp9a.png

   Setting a Quota

To configure Time Machine on the macOS client, go to

> :menuselection:`System Preferences --> Time Machine`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:menuselection:`System Preferences --> Time Machine`,
```

which opens the screen shown in
:numref:`Figure %s <config_tm_osx>`.
Click :guilabel:`ON` and a pop-up menu shows the %brand% system as a
backup option. In this example, it is listed as
*backup_user1 on "freenas"*. Highlight the %brand% system and click
:guilabel:`Use Backup Disk`. A connection bar opens and prompts for

> the user account's password--in this example, the password that was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the user account's password. In this example, the password is the password that was
```
